So in the last lecture we have covered how contracts work in Louisville and we've even created one of
our own but still in some of our controllers we use phosphates.
And as I've said previously using phosphates is just fine.
There are testable the same as injecting something to the constructor so you can as easily test something
in your unit test using phosphates and dependency injection.
So let's now see how those four seeds actually work by creating one of our own.
So we will create our first aid to our counter so let's create a new folder in the app folder.
Call it first seeds and create a new file and let's call it counter for seed.
So of course you can see that typically phosphates in Latvia are and called with the first aid suffix.
I'm just doing that for clarity.
So let's define the namespace.
This would be up for sates and this would be a class counter for seed.
This time we have to extend an object and it is actually fast say the base class from this namespace.
So Illuminate Support phosphates for seed.
That's the one.
So not the import that was added at the top now for seed only has to have one method which is static.
So let's define it.
Public function sorry public static function and the name should be get for seed access or now.
This method is supposed to return the service name from the service container.
And then when you will use this for seed and call any method statically larval will route all those
calls using peach bee magic methods.
It's not actually a very complicated implementation to the actual service.
So if we will return a service and for this we want to return a contract
so then larval will pick up whatever was defined for that contract on the service container.
So we are also not linking this for seed to anything from service container which is a class we are
saying that this is for seed access or for this contract and then whatever is said on the app service
provider that should be used for this particular contract or interface will be accessible through first
aid.
So now basically that's enough.
That's everything you have to do to create your own first seed but it's a good pattern to add some peach
bee dog blocks.
This is just commenting BHP so that's not actual code but it can be read read by some editors to add
some code completion.
So what you can do is you can say that this class will contain a method that is static that returns
an integer is called increment
and that it has arguments the same as our interface.
So the key and the dogs
which is no by default so not is that it differs a little bit from the from how you define this method
on the contract itself.
And this is just because it is a peach bee dog syntax which I will include a link to this lecture so
you can read more about the syntax of this documentation.
So this doesn't do anything.
You can write anything inside this particular comment something like Sade to contract.
This is just for documenting purposes.
Originally this was created to generate documentation of your code but now it also has some useful tasks
and it's been used for years by many developers to document their code and then to use that in the editors
like BHP storm or visual studio code with some plugins to get some help in the code completion tools.
OK so now save the changes and what we will do now is we'll switch back from using dependency injection
to using first aid.
So what we will do is now those two controllers won't have any dependencies injected nothing will be
utilized in constructors.
There will be no fields we don't even need this contract anymore.
And now how you can access the counter is instead of this counter you can use counter for seed and instead
of calling this method on an object seems counter if I say we accessed it here statically by using the
class name we use the static operator and then you can call increment notice that there isn't an increment
method defined on this facade.
So as I've said using this base for seed object larval will actually try to root this to a specific
service and execute this method.
So it contains a little bit of magic but it's not really complicated.
So there is no method like that yet when you type counter phosphate you get this method.
Thanks to this dog block that we have added at the top of the counter phosphate this one.
Okay.
So now you can call it like that counter phosphate increment and do the same in the post controller.
So instead of injecting dependencies
let's also remove the usage of this contract.
We can now safely use it using phosphate.
So removing this one counter for say static access or and calling increment also notice that in both
controller classes you need to add the import for the counter phosphate.
Okay.
Now say the changes and after you refresh you can see that nothing changes.
It works the same because it is accessing exactly the same thing.
So if you'll take a look at the profile it also works.
And now to prove that the phosphate is actually getting what it needs from the service container.
Let's go to the service container and switch back from using this actual counter class as implementation
to the dummy counter.
So save the changes now and you can see that we get this.
I am dummy counter.
Not implemented yet message and we are not using dependency injection.
We are using Forsyte now and well this proves that the four seeds are basically a static access or to
something from the service container.